docs/cli/index.md, before:

# Gemini CLI

Within Gemini CLI, `packages/cli` is the frontend for users to send and receive prompts with the Gemini AI model and its associated tools. For a general overview of Gemini CLI, see the [main documentation page](../index.md).

## Navigating this section

- **[Authentication](./authentication.md):** A guide to setting up authentication with Google's AI services.
- **[Commands](./commands.md):** A reference for Gemini CLI commands (e.g., `/help`, `/tools`, `/theme`).
- **[Configuration](./configuration.md):** A guide to tailoring Gemini CLI behavior using configuration files.
- **[Token Caching](./token-caching.md):** Optimize API costs through token caching.
- **[Themes](./themes.md)**: A guide to customizing the CLI's appearance with different themes.
- **[Tutorials](tutorials.md)**: A tutorial showing how to use Gemini CLI to automate a development task.

## Non-interactive mode

Gemini CLI can be run in a non-interactive mode, which is useful for scripting and automation. In this mode, you pipe input to the CLI, it executes the command, and then it exits.

The following example pipes a command to Gemini CLI from your terminal:

```bash
echo "What is fine tuning?" | gemini
```

Gemini CLI executes the command and prints the output to your terminal. Note that you can achieve the same behavior by using the `--prompt` or `-p` flag. For example:

```bash
gemini -p "What is fine tuning?"
```

Commit message:

feat(oauth): add Qwen OAuth integration

docs/cli/index.md, after:

# Qwen Code CLI

Within Qwen Code, `packages/cli` is the frontend for users to send and receive prompts with Qwen and other AI models and their associated tools. For a general overview of Qwen Code, see the [main documentation page](../index.md).

## Navigating this section

- **[Authentication](./authentication.md):** A guide to setting up authentication with Qwen OAuth and OpenAI-compatible providers.
- **[Commands](./commands.md):** A reference for Qwen Code CLI commands (e.g., `/help`, `/tools`, `/theme`).
- **[Configuration](./configuration.md):** A guide to tailoring Qwen Code CLI behavior using configuration files.
- **[Token Caching](./token-caching.md):** Optimize API costs through token caching.
- **[Themes](./themes.md)**: A guide to customizing the CLI's appearance with different themes.
- **[Tutorials](tutorials.md)**: A tutorial showing how to use Qwen Code to automate a development task.

## Non-interactive mode

Qwen Code can be run in a non-interactive mode, which is useful for scripting and automation. In this mode, you pipe input to the CLI, it executes the command, and then it exits.

The following example pipes a command to Qwen Code from your terminal:

```bash
echo "What is fine tuning?" | qwen
```

Qwen Code executes the command and prints the output to your terminal. Note that you can achieve the same behavior by using the `--prompt` or `-p` flag. For example:

```bash
qwen -p "What is fine tuning?"
```
